Braised Lentils
4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1 medium onion (or shallots), finely chopped
1 clove garlic, minced
1 1/2 cups green French lentils
1 tablespoon tomato paste
3 cups stock (chicken or vegetable), plus some extra if needed
1 large bunch (or 2 small bunches) broccoli rabe
1 clove garlic, sliced
1 large tomato, chopped
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 to 2 tablespoons butter
Handful fresh basil leaves, roughly torn
Salt and pepper to taste

1. Heat two tablespoons of the olive oil in a heavy-bottomed saucepan. Sweat the onions over low heat for about 8 minutes until translucent, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add the minced garlic and cook another minute. Add the lentils, tomato paste and a splash of the stock. Increase heat to medium and stir occasionally until stock has been absorbed. Continue adding stock and stirring occasionally until the lentils are just tender, about 30 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, bring a separate pot of water to boil and prepare a large ice bath. Drop the broccoli rabe in the boiling water and cook for 1 to 2 minutes. Remove with tongs and immediately place into ice bath until cool. Drain and pat dry. In a separate pan or skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Add the sliced garlic clove and the broccoli rabe. Season with salt and pepper and sauté for 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Add the chopped tomato to the lentils and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the cream and butter, and taste for seasoning when warm. Stir in the basil leaves, then serve immediately with the sauteed broccoli rabe on top.



Gemelli with Tuna and Cherry Tomatoe
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, 3 turns of the pan in a slow stream
6 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 (6-ounce) cans Italian tuna in olive oil, drained
1/2 pint small cherry or grape tomatoes, coarsely chopped
Coarse salt and black pepper
1 pound gemelli pasta -- short braids of pasta or other short-cut pastas can be substituted, such as penne rigate, cooked to al dente in salted water
1/3 cup flat-leaf parsley, chopped, about 3 handfuls
20 leaves fresh basil leaves, shreddeds

Heat a large, deep skillet over medium heat. Add extra-virgin olive oil and garlic to the pan. When garlic speaks by sizzling in oil, add tuna and mash into oil with the back of a wooden spoon. Let the tuna sit in the oil 5 to 10 minutes to infuse the fish flavor into the extra-virgin olive oil and to give the tuna time to break down -- it will almost melt into the extra-virgin olive oil. Raise the flame a bit and add the coarsely chopped tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. Heat the tomatoes through, 2 minutes, then add hot, drained pasta that has been cooked to al dente. Add parsley to the tuna and pasta and toss to combine well and evenly coat pasta. Adjust seasonings. Top pasta with shredded basil and serve.
