https://www.paintthekitchenred.com/instant-pot-arroz-con-pollo-chicken-and-rice/#recipecardd

2 Tbsp olive oil
1 ˝ lbs boneless skinless chicken thighs cut into 1˝ inch pieces
1 cup onions chopped
1 cup bell peppers red and/or green
1 cup celery chopped
1 Tbsp garlic minced
2 tsp cumin powder
1/2 tsp Mexican oregano
1/2 tsp turmeric powder or annato powder
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper or paprika
1/4 tsp white pepper
1/2 tsp black pepper powder
1 tsp salt or to taste
2 small bay leaves or 1 medium to large
1/4 cup cilantro stems and leaves separated, chopped
2 cups chicken broth – minus 2 Tbsp, for stovetop
14 oz. diced tomatoes (1 can)
1 ˝ cups long grain white rice or basmati rice
1 cup frozen peas thawed

Instant Pot Instructions
Press Saute and add oil to inner pot of the Instant Pot.
Once the oil is hot, add chicken to the inner pot, and cook until browned, about 5 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to transfer to a bowl or plate and set aside. If the chicken browns too quickly, press Cancel until the Instant Pot cools down a bit and press the Saute button again. Deglaze as needed with a tablespoon of broth.
Add onions, bell peppers, celery, and garlic. Stir until onion is translucent. The liquid released from the vegetables should be enough to deglaze the pan. If it's not, add a tablespoon or more of broth to deglaze. Press Cancel. The spices in the next step will cook in the residual heat.
Add cumin, oregano, turmeric, cayenne pepper, white pepper, black pepper, salt, and stir to coat, about 30 seconds. Make sure there's nothing stuck to the bottom of the inner pot – deglaze as needed.
Stir in chicken broth, bay leaves, reserved chicken, and cilantro stems.
Add the tomatoes (with the liquid) and spread out with a spatula, but don't stir.
Add the rice and gently push down with a spatula till immersed in the liquid, but don’t stir in.
Close the lid and pressure cook on High Pressure for 6 minutes.
Do a 10 minute natural pressure release.
Open the Instant Pot and add in the peas and cilantro. Carefully stir the arroz con pollo.
Let the rice rest open for 7 to 10 minutes. Serve with hot sauce on the side if desired.
