1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 to 3 tablespoons harissa paste
1 pint (10 ounces) cherry tomatoes, halved
1 teaspoon fine salt, plus more to taste
1 3/4 cups water or vegetable broth, plus more as needed
1/2 head medium cabbage, roughly chopped (about 6 cups)
Two (15-ounce) cans cannellini beans, rinsed and drained
1/2 cup pearl barley
Juice of 1 lemon
Freshly ground black pepper
Sliced, pitted green olives, sour cream and/or minced pepperoncini

In a Dutch oven or deep skillet over medium heat, heat the oil until shimmering. Add the garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened slightly but not browned, 2 to 4 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the harissa paste. (Take care, as it might pop and splatter a bit.) Stir to bloom and incorporate the harissa into the oil, 20 to 30 seconds.
Add the tomatoes, salt and a splash (about 2 tablespoons) of water or broth to the pot. Stir briefly, then cover and cook until the tomatoes soften, 2 to 3 minutes. Uncover and use the back of a wooden spoon or potato masher to break down the tomatoes. Continue cooking, uncovered, until the mixture thickens slightly, 4 to 5 minutes.
When the mixture looks saucy and the tomatoes have collapsed, add the cabbage. Increase the heat to medium and cook, stirring frequently, until the cabbage turns glossy and slightly wilted, about 5 minutes.
Add the beans, barley, and the remaining water or broth. Stir gently to submerge all of the barley in the liquid but without breaking down the beans. If needed, add a bit more water or broth. Increase the heat to bring the mixture to a simmer, then reduce it to low and cover. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the barley is tender but still a little chewy, 20 to 25 minutes. Remove the pot from the heat and let rest, still covered, for 10 to 15 minutes, so the barley can soak up flavor and continue steaming.
Stir in half of the lemon juice, then taste and season with black pepper and more juice and/or salt, as desired.
Serve warm, with more black pepper and the sliced olives, sour cream and/or pepperoncini, if using.
