Lemony Brussels Sprouts Pasta
Kosher salt
2 cloves garlic
1 1/2 pounds Brussels sprouts
3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese, plus more for serving
1 medium lemon
1 pound dried fusilli or other small tubular pasta
3 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 to 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1/4 cup fresh parsley leaves (optional)
2 tablespoons low-sodium soy sauce
Freshly ground black pepper

Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, mince or grate 2 garlic cloves. Trim and thinly slice 1 1/2 pounds Brussels sprouts (about 2 1/2 cups). Finely grate Parmesan cheese until you have 3/4 cup (grate more for serving if desired). Finely grate the zest of 1 medium lemon, then juice the lemon. Coarsely chop 1/4 cup fresh parsley leaves if desired.
Add 1 pound fusilli to the boiling water and cook until just al dente, about 2 minutes less than the package instructions. Meanwhile, heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large cast iron or heavy-bottomed skillet over medium-high heat until shimmering. Add the garlic and 1/2 to 1 teaspoon red pepper flakes depending on heat preference. Stir and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the shredded Brussels and season generously with kosher salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until wilted, softened, and browned in spots, about 10 minutes.
When the pasta is ready, reserve 1 cup of the cooking water, then drain the pasta. Drizzle the pasta with a little olive oil and toss to combine. When the sprouts are ready, add 2 tablespoons low-sodium soy sauce and use a wooden spoon or rubber spatula to scrape up any browned bits from the bottom.
Reduce the heat to low. Add the pasta, 3/4 cup Parmesan, and 1/2 cup of the pasta water. Stir vigorously until a sauce forms and clings to the noodles, about 1 minute. If the pasta looks too dry, add more pasta water a tablespoon at a time until it reaches your desired consistency. Stir in the lemon zest and juice. Taste and season with lots of black pepper and kosher salt as needed. Sprinkle with the parsley if using and a drizzle of olive oil. Serve with more Parmesan if desired.
