For the sofrito

1 small carrot (about 2 ounces), scrubbed and roughly chopped
1/2 small yellow onion (2 to 3 ounces), peeled and roughly chopped
2 cloves garlic, peeled
2 aji dulce chiles or 1/2 small yellow or orange bell pepper, stemmed (optional)
1/2 small green bell pepper, seeded and roughly chopped
5 stems fresh cilantro and their leaves
5 stems fresh culantro leaves and their stems (optional, may substitute with more cilantro)
4 ounces button mushrooms
For the picadillo

4 tablespoons olive oil
1/4 cup low-sodium soy sauce
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
1 (15-ounce) can brown lentils (not drained)
1 (15-ounce) can crushed or diced tomatoes, preferably with no salt added
1/4 cup raisins (dark or golden)
1/4 cup pimento-stuffed green olives, halved (optional) (about 7)
Salt (optional)
Steamed rice, for serving (optional)


Step 1
Make the sofrito: In a food processor, pulse the carrot until finely chopped. Add the onion, garlic, aji dulce, if using, bell pepper, cilantro, culantro, if using, and mushrooms, and pulse, stopping to scrape down the sides of the bowl every so often, until the mixture is very finely chopped but not totally pureed, 30 seconds to 1 minute; if you accidentally puree it, it’s okay. (You should get about 1 1/2 cups of sofrito.)

Step 2
Make the picadillo: In a wide skillet, heat the oil on high. Add the sofrito and cook, stirring often, until it begins to brown, about 5 minutes.


Step 3
Decrease the heat to medium-low and add the soy sauce, tomato paste, brown sugar, cumin, paprika, black pepper, garlic powder and oregano and stir to combine.

Step 4
Stir in the lentils, their liquid and the tomatoes. Increase the heat to medium-high, and bring the mixture just to a simmer. Cook for 5 minutes, and then stir in the raisins and olives, if using, keeping in mind that the olives will add additional saltiness and the raisins will add sweetness. Taste and add more salt, if needed.

Step 5
Serve hot, with cooked rice, if desired.