2 10in pizzas
1 pound pizza dough, at room temperature 1 hour
1 to 2 teaspoons vegetable or olive oil
1/2 to 1 cup pizza sauce
1 to 2 cups shredded cheese, such as mozzarella
1 to 2 cups toppings, like diced onions, diced peppers, cooked sausage, or any other favorite toppings
Prepare the toppings. Have the sauce, shredded cheese, and other toppings ready to go. Cook any raw toppings that you want cooked before assembling the pizza. Arrange all of the toppings within easy reach of the stove, where you'll be cooking the pizza.
Roll out the pizza dough. Divide the dough in half. Lightly flour your counter and then press or roll one piece of the dough into a round that's slightly smaller than the skillet you will be using -- you will need a 10 or 12-inch cast iron, stainless steel, or nonstick skillet.
Heat the skillet. Place the skillet over medium-high heat and add a teaspoon or two of the oil. You want just enough oil to slick the bottom of the pan. Heat until the oil is shimmering.
Cook the pizza for 1 minute. Transfer the round of pizza dough to the pan. Cook until you see large bubbles forming on top and the underside shows golden spots, about 1 minute. You can deflate the bubbles with the edge of your spatula — or leave them! They'll turn into crispy bits once you flip the pizza.
Flip the crust and add toppings. Use a flat spatula to flip the pizza dough. Immediately top with a few spoonfuls of sauce, a generous sprinkle of cheese, and other toppings.
Cover and reduce the heat to medium. Cover the skillet and reduce the heat to medium. This helps the cheese melt and prevents the bottom of the pizza from burning.
Cook the pizza for another 4 to 5 minutes. After 4 minutes, peek under the lid and see if the cheese has melted. Cover and continue cooking if needed; adjust the heat as needed to make sure the bottom gets golden-brown but doesn't burn. The pizza is ready as soon as the cheese has melted to your liking.
Transfer to a cutting board and enjoy! Transfer the pizza to a cutting board with the spatula and let it cool slightly before slicing and serving. Meanwhile, start cooking the other pizza with the remaining dough, sauce, and toppings.

Grill pizza dough 4 12in pizzas
1 2/3 cups warm water (about 100şF)
1 to 2 teaspoons active dry or instant yeast
1/4 cup olive oil
5 cups all-purpose flour (about 1 pound, 10 ounces)
2 teaspoons fine salt, or 4 teaspoons kosher salt

If you want to use the pizza dough that same day, use 2 teaspoons yeast. If you are going to let the dough rise overnight, use 1 teaspoon yeast.
Mix the water and yeast together in the bowl of a stand mixer or a large mixing bowl. Let stand for a few minutes until the yeast is dissolved. Stir the oil into the yeast mixture, then add the flour and salt. Mix with a spatula until a shaggy, floury dough is formed.
Knead the dough on low speed with a dough hook for 5 to 7 minutes, or knead by hand on the counter for 6 to 8 minutes. When kneaded, the dough should form a smooth ball, feel smooth to the touch, and spring slowly back when poked.
Use a pastry scraper or knife to cut the dough into 8 (about 5 1/4 ounces each) lumps for small pizzas, or 4 (about 10 1/2 ounces each) for 12-inch pizzas. Grease a baking pan lightly with olive oil or baking spray. Place the dough lumps in the pan and turn them over so they are coated with oil. Cover the pan with plastic wrap or a damp kitchen towel.
To Make Pizza the Same Day
Let the dough rise at room temperature for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, or until it has doubled in bulk.
At this point the dough can be used immediately, or refrigerated or frozen for later use.
? How long the dough lasts in the fridge: The dough can be refrigerated for up to 3 days. After that it should be cooked or frozen.
To Make Pizza the Next Day (or Later)
If you don't need the dough until the next day, place the covered pan immediately in the refrigerator and let it rise slowly overnight or up to 24 hours.
Before making the pizza, remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it sit at room temperature for at least 1 hour.
You can also of course remove just one or two balls of dough and return the remaining dough to the fridge. If removing just part of the dough, prepare a baking sheet or countertop surface by greasing lightly with oil or baking spray. Place the dough balls on top, then cover loosely with plastic wrap or a damp towel while they rise.
To Grill the Pizza
Preheat your gas grill with all the burners on high 10 to 15 minutes before you plan to cook. (Alternatively, start a charcoal grill.) Once heated, turn off or lower half the burners, creating an area of direct heat and an area of indirect heat. (Alternatively, bank a charcoal grill to create areas of direct and indirect heat.) Set up a workspace near the grill with space for shaping the pizza and bowls with sauce and toppings.
Working with one piece at a time, pull and stretch a dough ball in your hands into a round. Once it becomes large, drape it over your fists to continue stretching it into a large, thin round. If it feels more comfortable, you can also do this on a greased work surface.
Flip the shaped pizza onto the grill over direct heat. Close the grill. Let the pizza grill until the bottom is just barely cooked and shows char marks, 1 to 3 minutes. Every grill is different, and depending on yours and how long you preheated it, this time could vary.
Use tongs to flip the pizza over and move it to the indirect heat. Quickly spread it with sauce and spread a thin layer of toppings over top. (Don't over-top the pizza as this will interfere with it cooking quickly and completely.) Close the grill and cook until the toppings are warmed through and the cheese is melted, another 2 to 3 minutes. Again, time on your grill may vary. Use your sense of smell; if the pizza smells like it's scorching, open the grill and rotate the pizza into a cooler spot
Use tongs or a large spatula to slide the finished pizza onto a cutting board. Cut the pizza into slices and serve. Repeat with the remaining pieces of dough; as you get into a rhythm, you can start a second pizza over direct heat while the first pizza is finishing over direct heat.
