Vegetarian Runzas

Makes 12

Ingredients

Dough:
1/2 cup milk
1/2 cup water
1 large egg
1 TB butter
3/4 tsp salt
3 cups bread flour
1/4 cup flaxseed meal
2 TB sugar
2 tsp yeast
Filling:
2 1/2 cups brown or green lentils, dry
5 1/2 to 6 cups vegetable broth
1/2 cup grated onion
1/2 cup grated carrot
2 cups grated cabbage
salt and pepper, to taste

Directions

1. Combine ingredients for dough.  Follow bread-maker instructions to prepare the dough.

2. Once the dough is in the bread maker, prepare the lentils for the filling.  Heat vegetable broth over medium-high heat until boiling.  Once boiling, add the lentils.  Lower the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer for approximately 45 minutes to an hour, or until the lentils are cooked but not mushy.  Set aside to cool.

3. Once the dough is ready and the lentils are cooled, sautee onions, carrots, and cabbage over medium heat until softened (add oil or water to the pan to prevent sticking, if necessary).  Season with salt and pepper.

4. Combine the lentils and vegetable mixture.  Stir until mixed well.

5. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.

6. Split your dough into 12 equal-sized portions.  Spread flour over your rolling surface and on your rolling pin.  Roll out each piece of dough into a very thin oval shape.  Add additional flour to the rolling pin before rolling out each piece.

7. Place 3/4 cup of lentil and vegetable filling onto each piece of dough.  Bring the centers of the right and left side of the dough together and pinch in the middle.  Continue this process along the filling to create a “pocket” of dough.  Fold up the ends of the pocket and pinch together (see step-by-step pictures above).

8. Place the runzas seem-side down onto a nonstick baking sheet.  Let rest for 20 minutes.

9. Bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown.  Cool for 5 to 10 minutes.

10. Eat with a fork or just pick them up with your hands.  I highly recommend some dippage in either ketchup or barbecue sauce!

11. Refrigerate or freeze leftovers.  They reheat beautifully in the oven or microwave.
