Thumbprint Cookies

1 cup unsalted butter softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup brown sugar packed
1/4 teaspoon sea salt
1 large egg
2 ˝ cups all purpose flour 300g
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2 tablespoons dutch processed cocoa powder
1/2 cup granulated sugar for coating or your preferred topping (see notes)
1/2 cup seedless jam or your preferred fillings (see notes)

In a large bowl or stand mixer, combine butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar and beat well until light and fluffy. Scrape down the bowl to combine evenly.
1 cup unsalted butter,1/2 cup granulated sugar,1/4 cup brown sugar
Add the salt, egg, and vanilla extract into the butter and sugar mixture. Beat well until light and fluffy.
1/4 teaspoon sea salt,1 large egg,2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
Sift the flour and baking powder right into the same bowl. Fold the mixture until a cookie dough forms.
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour,1 teaspoon baking powder
Remove half of the cookie dough and set aside in a separate bowl. Add cocoa powder into the rest of the dough and gently mix just until completely incorporated into the dough.
2 tablespoons dutch processed cocoa powder
Use a 1 1/2 tablespoon cookie scoop, scoop the vanilla and chocolate cookie dough and roll each ball between your hands to get a smooth even ball.
Roll the cookie dough balls in your topping of choice (granulated sugar, coarse sugar, powdered sugar, finely chopped roasted nuts, or desiccated coconut - see notes for ideas and flavor combinations).
1/2 cup granulated sugar for coating
Press the middles down with your thumb or a measuring teaspoon to create space for the filling. To create a heart shape, push an indent with your index finger and then push again with your index finger at a slight angle to create a heart shape. Fill the indents with jam, lemon curd, fruit curd, hard candies… see notes for filling ideas. For fillings and toppings like Nutella, chocolates, or Hershey kisses - I recommend adding those after the cookies are baked and are right out of the oven.
1/2 cup seedless jam
Arrange the cookies on a parchment lined or nonstick cookie sheet with about 2 inches of space in between cookies to allow for spreading. Bake the cookies at 355°F (180°C) for 8-10 minutes - don’t overbake or they’ll be hard and crispy throughout.
After baking, top with any additional toppings like Nutella, chocolates, or Hershey kisses. If filling them with a topping like Nutella, press a measuring teaspoon into the middle to create space for the Nutella.
